designing an e-commerce website is
completely different than any other type
of website and the scary part is the
stakes are much higher meaning if you
don't do a good job it's going to
destroy site conversions and it's going
to cost your client a ton of money and
they're going to be tracking those
analytics and they're going to know if
the site isn't converting well so the
nice part is with these higher Stakes
also comes a higher reward meaning if
you do a good job at designing and
laying out these e-commerce sites you're
going to be able to charge way more for
your services because you're going to in
turn make a ton more money for your
clients so in this video I'm going to
break down to you the perfect layout for
an e-commerce site starting with the
most important page which is the product
page and by the end of this video you're
going to have everything you need to
design the perfect e-commerce website so
let's dive into it now I've got my
product page designed out here in figma
and we're going to dive into this and
break down every single aspect of it it
but the first thing that I want to cover
is in web design oftentimes we want to
push the boundaries of what's possible
and we want to make things look more
custom or more unique we want to follow
Trends but we have to be careful with
e-commerce sites because again every
little detail matters when it comes to
conversions and so if we ever have a
question on works and what doesn't we
can just refer to the most famous and
most successful e-commerce site of all
time and that is Amazon now I've got
this product page pulled up here on
Amazon because this is the last product
that I bought on Amazon and I bought
this for my four-year-old's birthday
that's coming up here in a few weeks but
I thought this was a fantastic example
because when you first look at it it
feels like there is a ton going on it
feels very cluttered there's a lot of
information and this isn't just for no
reason Amazon knows exactly what they're
doing they know about user Behavior they
know what helps conversions and they
know exactly how to lay out these pages
to make sure that it's a effective as
possible and the number one thing that
they take into consideration is what
shows up in the viewport or above the
fold right when somebody opens up this
site we want to show them the most
important information first because the
more somebody has to scroll the less
likely it is that they're going to buy
and so all of the things that make
Amazon such a successful e-commerce
website we're going to translate into
our own designs and layouts to make sure
that yours are performing as well as
Amazon so let's go back to our example
here that I've designed out now while
this may be a fairly Bare Bones design
this is going to be the perfect way to
lay out your sites almost every single
time now you can make slight variations
but the points we talk about in this
video are going to be true in every
single scenario so first on this design
let's look at what is found in the
viewport or above the fold and I've
outlined it with this Orange Box so you
can see that we've packed quite a bit
above the fold right we of course have
our navigation and there are a few you
critical pieces that we want to make
sure that we have that people can see
right off the bat now the first note
that I made here is we have our
breadcrumbs navigation now we want to do
this to make sure that our users know
exactly where they are on our site
because e-commerce sites and the way
that they're used are never just one
page and done right people are going in
pages and out of pages and into
different categories and it's a very
fluid experience and journey through
this website and so if we don't help
users know exactly where they are at all
times they're going to get confused and
frustrated and lost and so having your
breadcrumb links up here at the top are
going to help them see okay I'm in this
category this gender this product and
they can click these at any time to go
back now aside from those we want to
have the most important details of our
products so of course we want to have
our product image and it's going to be
most effective if you can have some
additional images that they can flip
through you're going to see that this is
something that Amazon always does does
they have well my face is here in the
way but they're going to have multiple
pictures here on the side that the user
can flip through so they're going to be
able to see as much of the product
including a video in a short amount of
time as possible so going back to our
example we've got our images and then
over here we have the most important
details right we've got the title which
oftentimes is going to be longer for SEO
purposes to make sure that if people are
searching for this product on search
engines they can find it we're also
going to have some sort of description
or subheading we want to keep this brief
and Punchy because nobody's going to
read more than maybe one or two
sentences if this is a paragraph or even
multiple paragraphs you've got a serious
problem because you're going to have
space for that bigger body copy down
below so keep this short and Punchy and
if you want to do something to really
spice it up and draw attention to it you
can put some sort of badge next to it
now badges really help with social proof
and so any type of badges whether it's a
specific award or any sort of
certificate education or safety rating
those badges are going to be a huge help
in helping in increasing conversions on
this specific product page another thing
that will help with your social proof is
reviews reviews are always the first
thing that people look for before they
purchase a product and so keeping these
front and center and I think that it's
really effective to have these reviews
link to when they click it it's going to
scroll them down the page to read the
actual reviews but I don't want to make
this too obvious by underlining it or
turning it blue because again we don't
want too many bleed points we don't want
to draw attention away from our main
call to action but that is a convention
that people are going to be used to hey
if I want to read the reviews I'm going
to click right here and it will take me
to the actual written reviews the next
thing we want to have is our pricing and
I made a note here that we want to make
sales and discounts as obvious as
possible this is another thing that
Amazon does really well they have it in
a different color and it's showing them
the percentage discount as well as the
price before the discount and so
utilizing both of these and just making
sure that our main price is the most
obvious whether it's bold or a darker
color or the largest one as long as we
make that obvious all these others are
just going to support those discounts or
sales and make people more likely to say
hey this is a great price I'm going to
go ahead and purchase this
and then we're also going to have any
additional item variations or details or
selections whether that's color size
whatever it might be and then of course
we have our call to action now like any
other page we want to make sure that our
call to action sticks out whether that's
with a color an icon whatever it is we
want to make sure that that button is
really obvious again Amazon does a great
job by having these buttons be specific
colors and when you're looking at this
page even though there's a ton going on
there are two things that draw my
attention the reviews in this orange
color and the add to cart and buy now
buttons which are yellow and orange so
again keeping those as the primary focus
of this page is going to make a massive
difference alright so moving down we
have some additional icons and if at all
possible it's going to be really nice if
you can keep these above the fold
especially if you feel like these are
big deal breakers when people are
considering buying your product so
whether that's the free shipping or free
returns you can move these up if at all
possible again it might make things
cluttered but with an e-commerce product
page that's not the worst thing in the
world you can see here that I do have
those below the fold and that's going to
be up to you we've also got some
additional images that people can flip
through and then scrolling down we're
going to move into more of our content
now there's really no specific way that
you need to lay out this content as long
as it's clean it's clear it's easy to
find I personally prefer a tab system
where people can click from the details
to shipping to returns and find all the
information they need right here in the
second viewport and then of course you
can move into things like customer
reviews and FAQ and then you always want
to have some sort of related or
suggested products that are similar in
category or type or color or whatever it
might be now with these simple layouts
you're going to be able to convert way
more of your users and the nice part is
is the only thing that you have to be
really strict with is this first initial
viewport and getting the most important
information right into front of your
user as early as possible now before we
dive into the mobile layout I want to
show you an example that has really
bothered me now I am sorry if you're the
individual that designed this e-commerce
page but this is horrendous and I would
dare bet say that the conversion rate on
this page is as bad as it could be
because you can see that above the
viewport there's almost no important
information that is shown other than the
name of the product which in this case
is very basic and then the price now the
one thing I will say is this is a
template this is not a live site so I'm
sure if somebody utilized this template
they would have more engaging photos a
more engaging title but the thing that
is really really bad on this page is all
of the things that fall below the
viewport the main photo the additional
photos all of the details right you've
got even your call to action button
Falls below the viewport and instead
we're utilizing over 50 percent of
what's C above the fold for our
navigation and for the name and our
breadcrumbs and so this is a horrendous
use of space and so if you are running
into any of these issues on your pages
that you're designing you need to start
smooshing more into that viewport
because it is going to make a drastic
difference now you can see if I flip
between this and our Amazon page this
one might have a more simplistic clean
design but that doesn't matter in
e-commerce because if you're not getting
people exactly what they want and if
you're not showing them something that
is familiar like an Amazon product page
they're just not going to trust it and
they're not going to buy and when I look
at a page like this the first thing that
I think is this is risky to put my
credit card in on this page and if I do
this is probably one of those products
that's going to take four months to ship
to me it just doesn't seem reliable and
so I'm out and so with that bad example
in mind let's go over here to our mobile
example okay now we have to be really
really careful with what we choose to
put above the other other elements right
when we're organizing and laying out
these things we have to decide what do
people need to see first okay now on
mobile people are more willing and
likely to scroll before they Bounce from
your website so don't feel like you have
to fit every single detail into your
little mobile viewport but with that
said we want to keep the most important
things at the top now a lot of times
I'll see people have this image as the
first thing and I don't necessarily
think that that's bad but I have found
that people want to make sure that
they're on the proper product by seeing
the name they always want to see their
breadcrumbs and then reviews and then
you're still going to have this image
front and center without them needing to
scroll now one thing that I would
recommend is rather than having all of
these smaller image thumbnails right
here
on the mobile I would do exactly what
Amazon does where they just have little
buttons or little dots right here that
show you which image you're on and they
are naturally going to scroll through
those images so that's going to take up
a lot less space but it's still a very
intuitive way to show people multiple
images and videos and then right below
that we're going to have the price now I
have found and from my research it seems
to me that these are truly the only
things that you have to show in the
viewport people don't expect to see the
add to cart button right front and
center on mobile they're okay to scroll
down to that but you want to make sure
that people know what product they're
looking at they can see the images and
the videos and they can see the price
and outside of that everything else can
just flow in underneath so we've got our
different color options we've got our
add to cart you can see that I've moved
my description even down further because
again on mobile people are even less
likely to read Big Blocks of text and so
while this is important you don't have
to have that as high as possible so then
scrolling down we have our icons we have
our tabs section which within this you
can have heavier blocks of text but I
would still encourage you to have
different images different examples
whatever it might be just to bring some
imagery to all of your content and then
scrolling down you're going to have
everything else that I've just left out
on this example so just like that you're
going to have the perfect e-commerce
product page now this might seem really
simple but I can promise you that the
increase in conversions that will come
from these layouts are going to be
drastic and if you can prove that your
designs for e-commerce sites are going
to boost and increase conversions people
are going to pay you a ton more so if
you're selling your services don't just
sell web design for e-commerce but
instead really promote yourself as the
person that can design pages that are
going to Skyrocket conversions because
this is what it takes to do that and
it's going to bring a massive increase
in sales for your clients so if you
enjoyed this video please be sure to hit
the like button button down below and if
you have any additional insights or
ideas into what we could do to make this
product page even better please drop
them down in the comments we'll be sure
to catch you in the next video thanks
for watching